Add Doc Blocks overview & API reference (#21113)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/api/doc-block-markdown.md

---
title: 'Markdown'
---

> The `Markdown` block allows you to import and include plain markdown in your MDX files.
> 
> ![Screenshot of Markdown block](TK)
> 
> <!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
> ```md
> // DON'T do this, will error
> import ReadMe from './README.md';
> // DO this, will work
> import ReadMe from './README.md?raw';
> 
> import { Markdown } from '@storybook/blocks';
> 
> # A header 
> 
> <Markdown>{ReadMe}</Markdown />
> ```
> <!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Reviewer: This paragraph from the drafts are omitted here (on purpose or not?), but I think it's an important companion to the snippet.

> When importing markdown files it’s important to use the ?raw suffix on the import path to ensure the content is imported as-is, instead of being evaluated:

```suggestion
The `Markdown` block allows you to import and include plain markdown in your MDX files.

![Screenshot of Markdown block](TK)

When importing markdown files it’s important to use the `?raw` suffix on the import path to ensure the content is imported as-is, instead of being evaluated:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```md
// DON'T do this, will error
import ReadMe from './README.md';
// DO this, will work
import ReadMe from './README.md?raw';

import { Markdown } from '@storybook/blocks';

# A header 

<Markdown>{ReadMe}</Markdown />
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
```

Author: Whoops! Thanks for the catch. Agreed it's important.

#### `MarkdownProps`

##### `children`

Type: `string`

Provides the markdown-formatted string to parse and display.

##### `options`

Specifies the options passed to the underlying [`markdown-to-jsx` library](https://github.com/probablyup/markdown-to-jsx/blob/main/README.md).

## Why not import markdown directly?

From a purely technical standpoint, we could include the imported markdown directly in the MDX file like this:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```md
{/* THIS WON'T WORK, THIS IS TO DEMONSTRATE AN ERROR */}

import ReadMe from './README.md';

# A header 

{ReadMe}
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

However there are small syntactical differences between plain Markdown and MDX2. MDX2 is more strict and will interpret certain content as JSX expressions. Here’s an example of a perfectly valid Markdown file, that would break if it was handled directly by MDX2:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```md
# A header

{ this is valid in a plain Markdown file, but MDX2 will try to evaluate this as an expression }

<This is also valid, but MDX2 thinks this is a JSX component />
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> Furthermore MDX2 wraps all strings on newlines in p tags or similar, meaning that content would render different between a plain .md file and an .mdx file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore MDX2 wraps all strings on newlines in `p` tags or similar, meaning that content would render different between a plain .md file and an .mdx file.
```
